---
articleType: note
---

# Quick Start

This tutorial will show your how to setup a project with BlogiNote in a simple way step-by-step

:zap: Let's Go :zap:

## Setup Environment (Optional)

::TipBox{type="announce" name="Optional Step"}
The steps in this part is **optional**.

If you just need to write the markdown files, then upload to the remote repository at Github, you can **skip** this section.

If you wants to test or preview the web pages generated from markdown files locally, you should follow these steps.
::

1. Install the Node.js first:

    you can download the latest LTS Version Node.js installer from the Node.js [Homepage](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (please select the installer suitable for your computer system) and install it.

    ::TipBox{type="good" name="Recommend"}
    A better way for developer to install the Node.js is using **[nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)**.

    nvm can manage multiple Node.js versions and change the active version easily.

    nvm is just for UNIX, Mac and Windows WSL. You can try the **[nvm-windows](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows)** for Windows.
    ::

2. Then run the follow command at terminal to install the [`yarn` package](https://yarnpkg.com/) globally:

    ```bash
    npm i yarn
    ```

3. Install [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads):

    Git is a free and open source version control system, we will use it to control the version of blog posts content, and sync the content between local project and remove repository at Github.

    ::TipBox{type="tip" name="Version Control"}
    Version Control is a software engineering concept.

    In the lifetime of a software, the code will change many times.

    After added new features or fixed bugs, the developers will release the new version to mark the changes.
    ::

4. Install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/):

    Visual Studio Code is an open source editor, it provide many useful features and plugins for developer.

    ::TipBox{type="tip"}
    If you just want to write some markdown files (as blog posts), and don't need to code for adding the custom features, you can install any [Markdown Editor](https://github.com/mundimark/awesome-markdown-editors) as you like.

    :sparkles: If you don't want to install any extra editor on your local PC, you should try this [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/edit/github-qrmhoj) project.

    This is an free online coding environment running the BlogiNote, it works right out of box :sunglasses: you create any new markdown files as you want, then the preview window will update simultaneously.
    ::

## Register Github and Vercel Account

1. Register a [Github](https://github.com/) account first:

    ::TipBox{type="tip"}
    Github is an online hosting service for code.

    The [source code of BlogiNote](https://github.com/Benbinbin/BlogiNote) is also hosted by it.
    ::

    You need to register an account of Github, because the next step is to copy the starter template from it.

    :IconCustom{name="noto:money-bag" IconClass="w-6 h-6"} the quota of the Github [Free Plan](https://github.com/settings/billing/plans) is enough for this project.

2. Then register a [Vercel](https://vercel.com) account:

    We need to deploy our static website to this platform.

    :IconCustom{name="noto:money-bag" IconClass="w-6 h-6"} the quota of the Vercel [Free/Hobby Plan](https://vercel.com/pricing) is fine for this project. If your website need more bandwidth, you can upgrade the plan at any time.

## Use the Starter Template
The most fast way to build your own project is using the starter template of BlogiNote.

::TipBox{type="warning"}
You should have a Github account and login before the next step.

Please check out the previous section *[Register Github and Vercel Account](#register-github-and-vercel-account)* about how to register a Github account.
::

### Fork Template
Open [this website](https://github.com/Benbinbin/BlogiNote-Starter-Template) and click the [:IconCustom{name="octicon:repo-forked-24" iconClass="w-4 h-4"} Fork]{.px-2 .py-1 .text-xs .text-gray-600 .hover:bg-gray-100 .border .border-gray-300 .rounded .transition-colors .duration-300 .cursor-pointer} button at the top-right corner of the page.

Then you will create a copy of the repository under your Github account.

Now you have full control over this duplicated repository. For example you can click the [:IconCustom{name="octicon:settings-24" iconClass="w-4 h-4"} Settings]{.px-2 .py-1 .text-xs .text-gray-600 .hover:bg-gray-100 .border .border-gray-300 .rounded .transition-colors .duration-300 .cursor-pointer} tab, and rename your repository in the `Repository name` input.

### Download Template (Optional)

::TipBox{type="announce" name="Optional Step"}
The steps in this part is **optional**.

If you just need to write the markdown files, then upload to the remote repository at Github, you can **skip** this section.

If you wants to test or preview the web pages generated from markdown files locally, you should follow these steps.
::

After fork the template, you can click the [Code :IconCustom{name="material-symbols:arrow-drop-down" iconClass="w-4 h-4"}]{.px-2.5 .py-1.5 .text-sm .text-white .font-bold .bg-green-500 .hover:bg-green-600 .rounded .transition-colors .duration-300 .cursor-pointer} button at the repository (under your Github account) page.

Then you will see a pop-up menu with some options to Clone/Download the code to your local PC.

* You can use command to download the code:

  the pop-up menu first option show multiple tabs, under the **`HTTPS` tab** there is a link, click the [:IconCustom{name="octicon:copy-24" iconClass="w-4 h-4"}]{.p-1 .text-xs .text-gray-600 .hover:bg-gray-100 .border .border-gray-300 .rounded .transition-colors .duration-300 .cursor-pointer} button to copy it

  then enter the command in terminal to download the code (`the_link_url` stand for the link you just copy mentioned above :point_up:)

  ```bash
  git clone the_link_url
  ```

  ::TipBox{type="warning"}
  Before execute the command in terminal, you should install Git software in your PC first.

  Please check out the previous section *[Setup Environment](#setup-environment-optional)* for more information.
  ::

* Another way is just clicking the [:IconCustom{name="octicon:file-zip-24" iconClass="w-4 h-4"} Download ZIP]{.p-1 .text-xs .text-gray-600 .hover:bg-gray-100 .border .border-gray-300 .rounded .transition-colors .duration-300 .cursor-pointer} option to download a ZIP file, then Unzip it

## Run Locally (Optional)

::TipBox{type="announce" name="Optional Step"}
The steps in this part is **optional**.

If you just need to write the markdown files, then upload to the remote repository at Github, you can **skip** this section.

If you wants to test or preview the web pages generated from markdown files locally, you should follow these steps.

Before you follow the steps in this section, you should install VS Code in your PC first, because all the steps will running inside this software.

Please check out the previous section *[Setup Environment](#setup-environment-optional)* for more information.
::

Open the folder you download (from the previous step) with VS Code.

Because this is a project based on Nuxt 3, so you should follow the [Nuxt documentation](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/getting-started/installation#prerequisites) to setup the VS code environment first:

* Install the [Volar Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vue.volar)

* Enable [Take Over Mode](https://github.com/johnsoncodehk/volar/discussions/471):

    1. Update Volar to 0.27.17
    2. Disable built-in TypeScript extension:
        * Press the shortcut `Shift` + `Ctrl` + `P` to open the Command Palette of VS Code
        * Run the command `Extensions: Show Built-in Extensions` to open the Extension sidebar menu
        * Find `TypeScript and JavaScript Language Features` and right click and select `Disable (Workspace)`
    3. Reload VSCode

* Add some code in the `nuxt.config.ts` file to disable generating the shim for `*.vue` files

    ```ts [nuxt.config.ts] {2-4}
    export default defineNuxtConfig({
    +    typescript: {
    +        shim: false
    +    }
    })
    ```

## Write Articles

## Upload or Sync Changes

## Deploy to Vercel

After connect the Github repository to Vercel, then all heavy work will automatically run in the background.

It will run BlogiNote program to parse the markdown files to web pages first, then deploy them to a server.

All these steps will finish within a minutes (the built time based on your content), and finally you will get a link of the project.

:tada: Just click to visit your website.

::TipBox{type="tip"}
After the first deploy, Vercel platform will monitor your Github repository. When you change the content of the Github repository, Vercel will auto rebuild the website for you.

It means each time you upload the new blog article to the Github repository, you just need to wait a minutes then refresh the browser, you can see the new blog post.

Yep :IconCustom{name="twemoji:partying-face"} so easy
::


---


## Setup VSCode Editor

## code highlight

if you want to change code highlight color theme, you can change the property of :page_facing_up: `nuxt.config.ts` file

3. change the highlight color theme for code

4. set the preload programming language for code highlight

if you want to custom some parts of the project, please keep reading