---
tags:
  - English
---

# Introduction
BlogiNote is Nuxt Content Theme, it can generate static web pages by parsing `.md`, `.csv` and `.json` files.

You can use this theme to build a website to show :scroll: long blog posts or  :memo: snippet notes, because BlogiNote provide flexible layouts and multiple optimizations for different type of content.

If you want to have a look at the parsed web page, your can check out the [Example](./example/example-article-en) page first, and compare [the source `.md` file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Benbinbin/BlogiNote/main/content/article/example/1.example-article-en.md) side by side.

It looks pretty good :wink: right?

Do you want to give it a try?

Now you can play it on [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/edit/github-qrmhoj). This is an free online coding environment running the BlogiNote, it works right out of box :sunglasses: you can overwrite the content at `content/article/example.md` file, then the preview window on the right side will update simultaneously :sparkles:

::TipBox{type="tip"}
Visit this [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/edit/github-qrmhoj) project and try the BlogiNote online!

:tada: Let's try it out and make Fun!
::

Magic :sparkles: right? How about building your own project with BlogiNote?

Now you can check out the :point_right: [Get Start](./tutorial/get-start) tutorial to setup your project.

::TipBox{type="announce" name="Contact Me"}
If you have any idea or feedback, feel free to contact me with :mailbox: [benthomsonbin@gmail.com](mailto:benthomsonbin@gmail.com){.text-blue-500 .hover:text-blue-600 .transition-colors .duration-300}
::